Add initial pages for release documentation and roadmap of architecture support (#194)
ROCm/TheRock: ROADMAP.md

# Roadmap

> [!WARNING]

> > This project is still in active development and not intended for production use.

Reviewer: Should this be added to the main README as well?

Author: I could go either way but thought I'd leave like this and see what feedback we get. It's all linkable from the top of the readme already with versions of the notice. If we get a lot of folks misunderstanding expectations of the project, I'll just move this to the top of the README.md.

> Our goal here is document the prioritized roadmap of target architectures we plan to test and eventually support as part of TheRock.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our goal here is to document the prioritized roadmap of target architectures we plan to test and eventually support as part of TheRock.
```

## Prioritized Target Architectures

> The following is a list of prioritized roadmaps divided by OS (Linux/Windows) and architecture. Each individual section is its own roadmap and we will be in parallel trying to support at least one *new* architecture per section in parallel working top-to-bottom Current focus areas are in __bold__. There will be exceptions from the "top-to-bottom" ordering occassionally based on test device availability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is a list of prioritized roadmaps divided by OS (Linux/Windows) and architecture. Each individual section is its own roadmap and we will be in parallel trying to support at least one *new* architecture per section in parallel working top-to-bottom. Current focus areas are in __bold__. There will be exceptions from the "top-to-bottom" ordering occasionally based on test device availability.
```
Missing period?

# Roadmap

> [!WARNING] This project is still in active development and not intended for production use.

Reviewer 2: fix formatting for the alert here (https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax#alerts)
```suggestion
> [!WARNING]
> This project is still in active development and not intended for production use.
```

Other tips:
* In VSCode, this extension teaches markdown previews about GitHub's alerts syntax: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=yahyabatulu.vscode-markdown-alert
* On GitHub itself, there are slash commands (https://docs.github.com/en/issues/tracking-your-work-with-issues/using-issues/about-slash-commands) for alerts:

  1. ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d8abf0a4-fc8f-464e-9d49-f4548f8b975e)
  2. ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ce689172-d1a8-4ce8-851e-0183a326b93b)
  3. ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/96922798-98f3-48bb-9eca-32faa6b6d269)

> This page is inspired by the discussion in https://github.com/ROCm/ROCm/discussions/4276 .

Reviewer 3: Make sure to reference this in the pr description so it cross references

Reviewer 2: I don't think discussions cross reference :/

We could edit the base post on the discussion with a link to this repository or the support table though.

Author: Moved to PR.

Our goal here is document the prioritized roadmap of target architectures we plan to test and eventually support as part of TheRock.

## Prioritized Target Architectures

The following is a list of prioritized roadmaps divided by OS (Linux/Windows) and architecture. Each individual section is its own roadmap and we will be in parallel trying to support at least one *new* architecture per section in parallel working top-to-bottom Current focus areas are in __bold__. There will be exceptions from the "top-to-bottom" ordering occassionally based on test device availability.

> *Note* for the purposes of the table below Sanity-Tested = "either in CI or some light form of manual QA has been performed. "Release-Ready" will mean that its supported and tested as part of our overall release process.

Reviewer 2: formatting suggestions (fixing the unclosed quotes for Sanity-Tested, matching the style across each, wrapping in an alert, adding a list, emphasis via italics)

```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> For the purposes of the table below:
> 
> * *Sanity-Tested* means "either in CI or some light form of manual QA has been performed".
> * *Release-Ready* means "it is supported and tested as part of our overall release process".
```

Preview:
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/06316511-250e-4d35-96d7-56278b4d2ae2)

### ROCm on Linux

**AMD Instinct**
Architecture | LLVM target | Sanity Tested | Release Ready
-- | -- | -- | --
**CDNA3** | **gfx942** | ✅ |
CDNA2 | gfx90a ||
CDNA | gfx908 ||
GCN5.1 | gfx906 ||

> GCN5.1 | gfx900 ||

Reviewer 2: The mdformat hook in pre-commit here https://github.com/ROCm/TheRock/blob/9529c7cec7f0ce93ad9ce3ec4962d6977e6d3fbd/.pre-commit-config.yaml#L25-L32 wants these tables formatted: https://github.com/ROCm/TheRock/actions/runs/13830020114/job/38692028443?pr=194

```diff
-Architecture | LLVM target | Sanity Tested | Release Ready
--- | -- | -- | --
-**CDNA3** | **gfx942** | ✅ |
-CDNA2 | gfx90a ||
-CDNA | gfx908 ||
-GCN5.1 | gfx906 ||
-GCN5.1 | gfx900 ||
+
+| Architecture | LLVM target | Sanity Tested | Release Ready |
+| ------------ | ----------- | ------------- | ------------- |
+| **CDNA3**    | **gfx942**  | ✅            |               |
+| CDNA2        | gfx90a      |               |               |
+| CDNA         | gfx908      |               |               |
+| GCN5.1       | gfx906      |               |               |
+| GCN5.1       | gfx900      |               |               |
```

While I like the look of the formatted tables and pre-commit / mdformat does handle applying it automatically, I have found that it produces very noisy diffs when editing any part of the table. Might turn that off.

Author: Ended up just following the precommit. Ideally I would have just configured the md5 presubmit check to not check for tables but couldn't figure out how based on the docs.

> **AMD Radeon**

Reviewer 3: Let's merge from the list I sent you offline.

Architecture | LLVM target | Sanity Tested | Release Ready
-- | -- | -- | --
**RDNA3** | **gfx1100** | ✅ |
RDNA3 | gfx1101 ||
RDNA2 | gfx1030 ||
GCN5.1 | gfx906 ||

### ROCm on Windows

Check [windows_support.md](docs/development/windows_support.md) on current status of development.

> **AMD Instinct**

Reviewer 3: Do not signal instinct support on Windows.

Author: Ack my bad. Was copying from the discussion.

> ### ROCm on Windows
> 
> Check [windows_support.md](docs/development/windows_support.md) on current status of development.
> 
> **AMD Instinct**
> Architecture | LLVM target | Sanity Tested | Release Ready
> -- | -- | -- | --
> **CDNA3** | **gfx942** ||
> CDNA2 | gfx90a ||
> CDNA | gfx908 ||
> GCN5.1 | gfx906 ||
> GCN5.1 | gfx900 ||
> 
> **AMD Radeon**
> Architecture | LLVM target | Sanity Tested | Release Ready
> -- | -- | -- | --
> RDNA3 | gfx1101 ||
> RDNA3 | gfx1100 ||
> RDNA2 | gfx1030 ||
> GCN5.1 | gfx906 ||

Reviewer 2: As far as I know, Instict (datacenter) is Linux-only. You can match the format of the table at https://github.com/ROCm/ROCm/discussions/4276 too.

```suggestion
### HIP Runtime and SDK on Windows

Check [windows_support.md](docs/development/windows_support.md) on current status of development.

**AMD Radeon**
Architecture | LLVM target | Sanity Tested | Release Ready
-- | -- | -- | --
RDNA3 | gfx1101 ||
RDNA3 | gfx1100 ||
RDNA2 | gfx1030 ||
GCN5.1 | gfx906 ||
```
